God in flound prudyai, which essentially means the trees are full of fruit.
For centuries the fruit trees trunks sweetwood.
Someone by an ancient monk drank deep, taproot sunk, at last became withered, shrunk.
Blessed the sky with blossoms feather-old tree.
All day through spring's weather gardeners gathered together with tools laid on green heather.
Tangled limbs to neglected bough, poor tree.
Pruning shears needed now to slash branches and allow equilibrium somehow.
Reduced, thinned out and redesigned, grow free.
Green shoots at last unwind, ancient tangle realigned, trees fertility refined.
A restless gardener, resolute craze bee, preserved the severed shoot to graft onto younger root and ensure continued fruit.
Throughs all that small simile of gardeners gardening for free.
That ancient tree is our own language, Welsh.
Time cannot squelch such vitality.
Now I am a new man grafted here.
That new shoot of Welsh to persevere the red dragon's roar rings out clear and loud.
I am proud to be his pioneer.
Guard you gardeners your old blossom dome while I find my roots sunk in new loam.
I'll bear fruit as this poem tries to attest.
Here in the West, a new shoot at home.